[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> It is only through a shift or
a change in consciousness from
the world of form to the world
spirit that we will be able
to eliminate and eradicate
the kinds of things that are
so sorrowful to all of us.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I took 60 days about
a year and a half
ago to write 60 essays based
upon 60 of the greatest
teachers that have
ever influenced my life
or ever walked among us.
There were many great
teachers who, perhaps we
think they're now
gone, but their spirit
is something that we will
always be connected to.
And it is that
spirit that I wanted
to address in this most
important undertaking
of my life up until now.
And I set aside these 60 days.
And in those 60 days,
I decided that I
would try to challenge
myself like I had never
been challenged before.
I was going to take,
on each given day,
I was going to wake up at 4 AM.
And I would take the person
that I was highlighting.
And I would read all I
could about their lives,
what their lives were like.
Because as much as what they
had to say is significant,
a big part of what I want to
share with you this evening
is what are people like
who live at the highest
levels of consciousness.
And after seven or eight
hours of immersing myself
in their work, I
would take an hour,
and I would just
walk and meditate.
And then I would take the
afternoon for seven or eight
hours, and I would look at all
that they had contributed--
their poetry, their
statesmanship,
their drawings if they
were artists, whatever it
was that they had contributed.
And then again, I would
meditate and get very quiet.
And I would take a picture,
or a sculpture, or a bust,
and I would look at that
picture, or that drawing,
or that bust.
And I would ask the
question, what would you
say to the people
who are here today?
Let me write it.
And then I would get very quiet.
And this may sound
a little strange.
But when you surrender, when you
let go, when you turn it over,
when you surrender the
little mind to the big mind
and you allow something
greater inside of you
that you are always connected
to but you sometimes
feel separate from,
when you allow
this to be the
force in your life,
the most miraculous
things begin to happen.
As a matter of fact, in a
book called How to Know God,
the third essay that I
wrote was written by a man
that no one had any pictures,
the only person that there were
no pictures of or no drawings.
His name was Patanjali.
And in fact, we don't
even know when he lived.
It was somewhere between the
third and the fourth century
before Christ.
And his great
writings were found
and were called the
original yoga sutras.
There were four of them.
And in those yoga
sutras, Patanjali
talked about how to go within
and not know about God,
not believe in God, but
how to come to know God.
Knowing in such a way that
you make conscious contact,
so that all doubt
about whether or not
you and God are connected
is diminished and banished
from your life.
And in How to Know God,
I began to practice
some of those sutras.
I read them one page at a time
for almost a year, each day,
one day.
And I would practice these
sutras, which are really
sort of like almost affirmations
that you make inside
of you from a
perspective of surrender.
And the most amazing
and astonishing things
began to happen in my life.
I began to feel lighter.
My arms would feel almost as
if they were like feathers.
And I would get up from
one of those experiences
and I'd put my leg
down, and it was
like there was no leg there.
It's sort of like
being stoned, I
guess, without having to go
through all of that poisons.
It's just a very light,
wonderful feeling.
And then one time when I
was doing this in my office,
I noticed that my body
began to move and rise.
Now, some of this
will sound weird.
And I guess when it
does, I'll point it
out so that you don't
think I don't know--
[LAUGHTER]
--that some of this is going
to sound weird tonight.
But I'm just telling
you my experience.
And I watched myself
lift up off the ground
and go back down in this
ecstatic state of bliss
practicing these sutras on how
to know God, where I literally
was able to see my body
but not be a part of it.
And it lifted up again.
And then my ego got in it.
And I thought, boy, I could
go on "The Tonight Show."
[LAUGHTER]
And I was never
able to do it again.
[LAUGHTER]
It's interesting.
As soon as the ego got involved.
Saint Paul said, that which
is seen, that which is seen
hath not come from
that which doth appear.
That is, the source
of everything
over here in the physical world
is not in the physical world.
So in order to be able
to reach the highest
levels of consciousness
and awareness, which
is what this evening
will be about,
you have to figure out a way to
get out of the world of form.
And Patanjali, writing
somewhere 300 or 400 years
before Christ and after
Buddha, said these words
that I laminated.
And they are the part
of the third essay
in Wisdom of the Ages.
He said, when you are inspired--
now, the word inspired
comes from in spirit.
The word information
comes from in form.
So that when you are in form, in
the physical body, what you get
is information, lots and
lots of information--
stuff, data.
Which is something that I'm
moving away from in my life,
less information.
I don't have an email.
I don't have a cell phone.
I don't have an
answering machine.
I'm getting rid of my telephone.
I want less information because
it has a tendency for me--
and again, I'm just,
I have the mic, OK,
so it's not like what I'm
saying is true for everyone.
But you came to hear
what I have to say.
And some of it you'll like
and some of it won't like.
And that's all fine.
So when you're in form,
you get information.
And you get inundated with it.
And we're a culture
that's becoming
inundated with information.
But when you're in spirit,
what you get is inspiration.
And Patanjali put it this way--
when you are inspired
by some great purpose,
some extraordinary project,
all of your thoughts
break their bonds.
Your mind transcends
limitations.
Your consciousness expands
in every direction.
And you find yourself in a new
and great and wonderful world.
Then he said the part
that really blows me away.
He said-- dormant forces--
that is, forces that
are not active--
dormant forces, faculties,
and talents come alive.
And you discover yourself to
be a greater person by far
than you ever dreamed
yourself to be.
Those are the most
powerful words
for transforming your life,
your community, our world
that I know.
When we lose our
connection to spirit,
we lose our capacity to be able
to get past the world of form
and all of the
things and the evils
that get represented by it.
It is only through a shift
or a change in consciousness
from the world of form
to the world of spirit
that we will be able to
eliminate and eradicate
the kinds of things that are
so sorrowful to all of us.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I'd like to now move on
to an explanation of what
this higher level of
consciousness looks like.
If you can think of a
continuum along this stage
with over here representing
point A, that is, to the far
left.
We'll use the carpet
here as the endpoint.
And point A is represented
right here by this speaker.
Point B is right
here in the center.
And point C is where the
speaker is at my right.
All right, that's the whole
continuum, beginning to end.
Now, if we first think about
the physical body, your body,
point A in terms of
your health represents
an absence of health.
It represents
things being wrong.
This is where you have diseases,
aches and pains, coughs,
hernias, flu, arthritis, cancer,
heart disease, high blood
pressure, whatever it is that
might be currently wracking
your body.
Point A is symptoms up
until you get to point
B, which is where you feel OK.
This is where I feel fine.
When someone says,
how do you feel,
you say, I feel all right.
Nothing is wrong.
This is an absence of symptoms.
All right.
And most of us, when we
think of our physical health,
we think of moving between
point A and point B.
Point C over here
represents super health.
This is where you're feeling as
great as it's possible to feel.
This is the place
where your body, which
is your temple that was granted
to you to house your soul,
is treated with the
reverence that it
deserves to be treated with.
You are at perfect health.
So between point
B and point C is
where you feel OK to I
feel absolutely fantastic.
There are no toxins in my body.
There's no tobacco in my body.
There's no alcohol in my body.
There's an absence of
caffeines and things like that
that we know are just
destructive to our body.
We know it.
This is where I take positive,
great care of myself.
All right.
So that's A, B,
and C. But I don't
want to talk about that
tonight because it's
depressing to most of you.
[LAUGHTER]
All right, now let's take
your emotional health.
Point A over here represents
anxiety, stress, depression,
fear, being upset,
feeling out of sorts,
just being unhappy generally.
Point B represents
I have no symptoms.
I'm not depressed.
There's nothing basically wrong.
I'm OK.
This is called ordinary
human awareness.
I'm fine.
Point C represents,
again, I feel fantastic.
Depression isn't something that
is a part of my vocabulary.
If someone says to me, don't
you ever get depressed,
as a woman once did.
And I said, no.
She said, that's depressing.
[LAUGHTER]
That's just depressing.
This is a place where you
are in love with life.
And you're not looking
at the negatives.
And you're not bonding yourself
to the wounds of your past.
You're not bonded
to those wounds.
All right, so that's
the emotional health.
But I don't want
to talk about that.
What I want to talk about
is higher consciousness,
highest levels of
consciousness, the place where
the most fully functioning
people among us live.
And I'll give this three
names as well for A, B,
and C. Point A represents
individual consciousness,
the ego.
This is the place
where I identify
who I am on the basis of
what I have, what I do,
and what other
people think of me.
What I have, what I do, and
what other people think of me.
This is a place where
I basically see myself
as separate from everyone else.
And I'm in competition with
all of those people that
are out there.
And in order for me to feel
really good about myself,
I have to be better
than they are.
Point B represents
group consciousness.
Group consciousness
is one in which
my identification is with
the various groups that
are a part of my life.
So here is like, I'm
not just ego involved,
but I have an identification of
myself as, oh, I'm an American
and you're a Canadian, or you're
a Mexican, or you're an Asian,
or whatever.
Here I am a male and
you are a female.
Here I am Catholic;
you are Protestant.
I am Muslim; you are something
that I despise called Jewish.
And I identify
myself on the basis
of these tribes or these
groups that I belong to.
And you can take it from very
large groups to very, very
small groups, such as the
ones at the high school
in Littleton.
My identification is
as a member of this.
And very often, most of us
spend almost all of our life
either at point A or point B
or in combinations of this.
That I am what I have, what I
do, what others think of me.
And I am a member of
these various groups.
And on the basis of
these groups most
of the violence that takes place
in our society and our culture
is perpetrated.
If you were born on
this side of the river
and I was born on that
side of the river,
then this means this is
where my loyalties lie
and I have to be against you.
This is called
group consciousness.
And it's a very low, low
level of consciousness.
And it's one, unfortunately,
that most of the planet
is still living on.
But we can change.
Over here is where I want
to spend most of tonight.
I'll put this right here.
This is called
unity consciousness,
also called God consciousness.
It's called Christ
consciousness.
In the East, it's called siddhi
consciousness, S-I-D-D-H-I,
siddhi consciousness.
It's a consciousness that is
represented by our ability
to be able to transcend
our form, which
is the definition of
the word transform.
Trans in front of form means to
go beyond form, to transform.
When Lao Tzu was asked the
question, what is real,
master what is
real, he responded
that is real which
never changes.
So now you've got to
find the part of you that
meets that definition.
What part of you is
real and authentic
that has never changed?
Is it your body?
Not mine.
I look in the mirror and I can't
even believe what looks back.
[LAUGHTER]
Because I just don't
think that's me.
That's just an old man
in there renting my face.
[LAUGHTER]
Truly, that's how I see it.
You have to find
the part of you that
is able to look at all
of that, to observe it.
I remember one morning
I was out running
and my wife was
across the street.
And she just came
out about 6:00, 6:30.
And she said, come on, we're
going to have breakfast.
And then she was standing on
the other side of a fence.
The fence was about this high.
And I ran up to the fence
and I hurled over the fence.
I just jumped over the fence.
And she screamed at me.
She said, you can't do that!
I said, can't do what?
She said, you're 56 years old.
You don't jump over fences
when you're 56 years old.
You could kill yourself.
I said, oh my god, I forgot.
[LAUGHTER]
And this observer in here,
this witness to this form--
which is the eternal
part of who we are--
doesn't ever age.
There is a part of you
that's been looking out
that has never aged a bit.
How can it age?
It has no form.
It has no beginnings.
It has no ends.
It has no boundaries.
It has no limits.
It's just that which is
beyond the world of form.
That's the only way I
know how to describe it.
Because as soon as you use
words, you're using symbols
that have beginnings and ends.
And you can't define
it any longer.
It's like trying to define God.
You can only experience
God to know God.
It's not something that can
be described with words.
So this knowing,
this invisible part
of us in here that is
eternal, Carl Jung said--
the telling question
of a person's life
is their relationship
to the infinite.
Like, it's the most
important thing
that you can have in your life.
Do you have a relationship
with the infinite?
Do you know that there's a
part of you that can never die?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
The people who live at
this level of consciousness
that I'm calling
self-actualization, or higher
awareness, or
higher consciousness
have a different relationship
to the infinite than people
who live over here
in the world of ego
and in the world of the
group consciousness.
These are people who
talk about the soul.
Some of the people
that I selected
for this Wisdom of the Ages
collection, Herman Melville.
I remember reading Moby Dick
when I was in high school
and just being fascinated with
this obsession for this whale.
And Melville, I discovered
when I read about Melville,
went out--
he was writing up
in Massachusetts.
And he went out
into a cornfield.
And he sat in the
middle of a cornfield
in the middle of July.
Remember, you know
what those are like?
Where you can do nothing
but see corn all around you?
--so that he could get himself
into the feeling of what
he was trying to describe.
And this is what he wrote.
And I remember it was
one of the passages
that I underlined when
I was in high school.
And it was, again, one that
I selected for this book
to write an essay about.
He said-- for as this
appalling ocean surrounds
the verdant land, so
in the soul of man
there lies one insular
Tahiti full of peace and joy,
but encompassed by all of the
horrors of the half-lived life.
When people say to me, what do
I do in moments of distress?
What do I do?
How can I overcome the
struggles and the difficulties
in my life?
I say, go to Tahiti.
Go to that invisible
place within you,
that place where you have
access to the divine peace.
There is no death.
It's like you have
to look at all
of the things that have ever
happened to you in your past.
I have four words.
These are the four words.
These four words, if you
memorize these words--
and you won't need
to write them down--
you will eliminate
virtually all turmoil
for the rest of your life
in all relationships,
whether it's with your in-laws,
your husband, your wife,
your ex-wife, your spouses,
your ex-in-laws, people
on the freeway, waiters,
baggage handlers,
rude people on the street,
whatever it might be.
You get these four words
down, and you practice them
in your life.
But before I do, I think I
should take up a collection.
This is too good for what
you paid to get in here.
[LAUGHTER]
I mean, you're going to get
too much out of it, you know.
And here are the four words--
you're right about that.
Let me hear it.
>> You're right about that.
>> This is really a very
weak, dumb audience.
[LAUGHTER]
>> You're right about that.
Now, see, the idea here is
that it doesn't make me right.
It just allows me to
believe that I'm right.
And that's all the ego wants.
That's all the ego needs.
The ego just needs to
believe that it's right.
So if you can let any ego that
comes at you believe that it is
right, your at turmoil is over.
My wife and I had
a talk about this.
[LAUGHTER]
And we said, we've been
married a long time.
And we're committed
to each other.
And we love each other.
And we have a lot of
children together.
And we're pretty much in
this thing for the long haul.
I said, but sometimes even
though we love each other,
the way we talk to each other
doesn't sound like love.
You know after you've been
together for a long time?
I know it's hard
for you to believe
that this could come from me.
But it's not from me.
It's always from her, all right?
[LAUGHTER]
So we said to each other, what
can we do to eliminate this?
And so we began to
practice this thing
that I call being kind
rather than being right.
So which means that you allow
the sacred or the higher
part of you to be more
dominant in your life.
And when someone says something
to you when you know obviously
that they're wrong, instead
of making them wrong
and creating the
turmoil, you just stop.
And you say, now, is it my
ego that needs to make them--
or is it the higher part of me?
And the higher part of me
just wants to be at peace.
You're right about that.
Now, sometimes you can just
hold up the four fingers.
Which is what we've
gotten into now.
When she'll say
something to me--
you see, my wife is still
wrong almost all the time.
[LAUGHTER]
And she feels the same way.
If she were giving
this talk, she'd
say the same thing,
that I believe
that I'm right all the time
and I'm wrong, you see.
So now we just hold
up the four fingers.
But I have noticed that
I did this the other day.
She said something to me.
And I was about to--
because she was obviously wrong.
[LAUGHTER]
But I was about to go like this.
And I just went like that.
And she said, I hate
it when you do that.
I said, you know,
you're right about that.
I notice now that she's
holding up four fingers,
but she's doing
it one at a time.
It's like she's doing--
[LAUGHTER]
But each time, I say,
you're right about.
So you start practicing this.
You start letting
this ego of yours
be something that
no longer dominates.
And what happens is, you
move into a higher level
of consciousness.
Because you're starting
to choose peace.
So now what you do is, you do
this in all areas of your life.
You move into the place
where you choose to be kind
rather than to be right.
In the last few
minutes that I have,
I would like to share with you
how to get what you really,
really, really, really want.
I did a TV special on this.
Some of you may have seen it
on Channel 6 here in Denver.
Channel 6, did I say?
It's getting late.
Pretty soon I'll be calling
it your erogenous zones.
[LAUGHTER]
So here's the secret.
This is what I have come
to tell you in Denver.
What you really,
really, really, really--
that's four reallys--
want, you will get.
And the four reallys
stand for something,
how you attract
and manifest what
you want in your life,
individually and collectively
as a people.
The first really stands
for what you wish for.
I wish I had more money.
I wish I had a
better relationship.
I wish I could get
that promotion.
I wish I could heal myself
of this hernia that I've got.
Whatever it is, it
starts with a wish.
The second really stands
for what you ask for.
Ask and you shall receive.
We don't ask enough.
We don't surrender the
little mind to the big mind.
When I get to a point in
my life where I'm stuck,
if I'm writing, if I've got
something going on with one
of my children-- whatever it
might be and I get stuck--
I'll get up from
my writing table.
I will go over to a chair,
usually a meditation chair.
I'll get very quiet.
And I will ask out
loud, I am stuck.
I don't know how to write this
the way that it satisfies me.
I would really appreciate any
help that I might get from.
You and I put that
out there in words.
And often, the
telephone will ring.
In fact, in Wisdom
of the Ages, I
tell the story of when
I was away writing
those was essays each day.
And only two people knew
my phone number, my wife
and Deepak Chopra,
my other wife.
[LAUGHTER]
And we were planning a
trip or whatever it was.
And he called me, and right
in the middle of a moment
when I was stuck, right
after I had said that.
And I told him the whole story.
And then he'd said
something to me.
And I went back.
And I wrote the
whole thing out there
exactly how it had happened.
And he said, go
ahead, include it.
Because, he said, I got
your message in the field.
And he picked up the phone and
felt that he needed to call me.
Ask.
And invariably, when you ask,
the most astonishing things
begin to happen.
You begin to manage the
coincidences of your life.
Things begin to
show up in your life
that you didn't even know
were possible before.
Your attention is on it,
and you're manifesting.
You're living over here.
And when you do live
at this point C,
at this collective unity
siddhi god consciousness level,
the coincidences of your
life begin to be managed.
And you begin to say, if
I keep my attention on it
with passion, I will create it.
And then you're thinking
about something.
I remember thinking not too
long ago about my wife had said,
we've got the screen
door that the dog
has knocked in about 100 times.
And we've got get
this thing repaired.
And she keeps wanting
me to repair it.
And I keep telling her, honey,
you're right about that.
But I ain't fixing the damn
screen door because I don't--
So I'm thinking about that.
And I'm driving
down I-95 on my way
to playing a tennis
match in the morning.
And driving right alongside
me is this van that says,
we will fix your screen door.
[LAUGHTER]
Right while I was
thinking about that.
I went, wow, this is fantastic.
And he got way ahead of me.
He was in the lane that I
couldn't get in or whatever.
I thought, oh my god,
I've got to find him.
Because there was a
phone number on there.
And sure enough, I get
up there, and he was
stalled behind somebody else.
And I started writing
the number down.
And this guy came out that
day and fixed my screen door.
I had had my attention on it.
And you think, oh, that's
just a coincidence.
But you know what?
After a while, these
coincidence begin
to happen with more
and more regularity.
The third really stands for what
you intend, what you intend.
I intend to create this.
Not I hope it will happen,
but I intend to create it.
You shift from the language
of "maybe" and "can I" to "I
will."
And by the way, when you are
intending to manifest or create
anything through Japa, don't
share it with anyone, not even
your soul mate.
Why?
Because when you share
what you are attempting
to manifest into
your life, you will
have to explain it
or defend it, which
means you instantly invoke ego.
And the moment that
you invoke ego,
you stop the
process of creation.
That which is seen hath not come
from that which doth appear.
Particles themselves
are not responsible
for their own creation.
That's a summary
of quantum physics.
It takes something else.
You've got to get out
of the world of ego
and into the world of spirit.
And by sharing it,
and defending it,
and explaining it, and talking
about it, you stop the process.
Just a little advice.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
The fourth really
stands for passion,
what you are passionate about.
Passion means-- Nisargadatta
put it to me this way.
He said, the attempt
to invoke and manifest
what you want in your
life without passion
is like dressing up a corpse.
He said, it looks the part, and
it's got all the right clothes.
But it's still dead inside.
And therefore, manifesting
is not possible.
You must have passion, a
sense of identification
with what it is that
you want to create
for yourself and your life.
And that's the good news.
The bad news is that
what you really,
really, really, really, really
don't want you will also get.
And this is why most people
are not good at manifesting.
And this is what I want to
leave you ringing in your ears.
If you understand that what you
think about is what expands,
as you think, so shall you be.
The ancestor to every
action is a thought.
And if your thoughts are
on what you don't want,
then what you don't want is
what you will have to act upon.
And what you don't want
will continue to manifest
and show up into your life.
You cannot manifest prosperity
from "I despise being poor."
You cannot manifest thin
from "I hate being fat."
If you hate being poor,
then hating being poor
is where your attention is.
Then you will act
upon what you hate.
And you will see more evidence
for hating being poor show up
in your life, and it gets worse.
You cannot manifest what
you want into your life
if your energy or your attention
is on what is, that is,
on the circumstances
of your life.
If you put your attention
on what is, then what is
is what you will act upon.
And you will see more
of what is continuing
to show up into your life.
And there are lots
and lots of people
out there to point out what is.
This is the way things are.
This is your reality.
You have always been
poor, except if you're
one of those people.
You have always been fat.
You're going to stay fat.
Forget that.
You cannot-- and they will tell
you all the things that you
cannot do.
And you might despise them
for doing that and saying that
to you.
And your energy is on despising
what they tell you what is.
And you act upon
what you think about.
And more evidence to despise
what is keeps showing up.
Manifesters never
place their attention
on what is, only on what
they would like to create.
I'll give you a simple
example of that.
I was in a hotel in
Chicago just two days ago.
And it was at 1:32
in the afternoon.
And I called down
to get a sandwich.
And room service closed at 1:30.
And the woman that answered
the phone said, I'm sorry,
we cannot make you
a sandwich, I said,
it's only been two minutes.
Surely some kind-- I haven't
eaten since for four days.
I said-- I was giving
this long thing.
Surely there's got to
be something down there.
You can find some mouse
turds or something.
Put them on a piece of toast
and just make something, I said.
She said, I'm sorry, sir,
room service is closed.
We cannot make you anything.
Everything is closed.
So I said, you know,
you're right about that.
[LAUGHTER]
And I hung up the phone.
And I started to
call the manager.
And I was going to complain
about not getting any food.
But then I realized my thoughts
were on not getting a sandwich
and being upset.
So I slipped on some clothes.
And I got on the elevator.
And the entire time
on the elevator I
was thinking about what I
wanted, which was a sandwich.
I just want a sandwich.
I see myself having a sandwich.
I'm not pissed off at this
lady who is where she is.
I'm not upset about
the management.
I love the hotel.
I have no problem
with any of it.
I just want a sandwich.
And I just kept seeing
myself having a sandwich.
I got off the elevator,
and I walked over
to this little
area in this hotel.
And there was a guy
standing back there,
a Puerto Rican fellow, who was
sweeping up and everything.
And I said, I'd really
like to have a sandwich.
He said, I'll make
you a sandwich.
I'll make you a club
sandwich, no problem.
What do you want on
your club sandwich?
And he made this
beautiful sandwich.
I didn't even have
to pay for it.
He said, that's OK, don't worry.
Forget about it.
You don't have to pay for it.
And I walked upstairs.
And I was sitting
there thinking,
I had my attention
on what I wanted.
As long as my attention
was on what I didn't want,
what I didn't want was
just what kept coming up.
It's an instant shift.
And it's a simple little example
but something to keep in mind.
It gets worse.
You cannot manifest and attract
into your life what you want
if your energy or your thoughts
are on what always has been.
Because if your thoughts
are on what always has been,
you will act upon
what always has been.
And what always has
been will continue
to show up into your life.
And there is no shortage
of people to tell you
what always has been, the
way we've always done things.
And it gets even
worse than that.
You cannot manifest or attract
into your life what you want
if your thoughts or your energy
is on what they want for you.
Even if you despise what they
want for you and you hate
it and you resent them deeply
for imposing it on you,
you've got to say,
you're right about that,
and get your attention
onto what you want.
Get your ego out of it.
Which means you let their ego
believe that they're right.
And get your energy
shifted onto what you want.
You see, you can be filled
with resentment and anger
towards all of these people.
And that's exactly what you
will continue to act upon.
It's like if I gave
you a million dollars
and I said to you, with
this million dollars,
go out to the mall and buy
anything that you want.
That's what it's for.
This is the currency
that you have.
And the first store you walk
into sells oriental rugs.
And they're $50,000 apiece.
And you say, I got a million
dollars to buy what I want.
This is the ugliest looking
thing I've ever seen.
I would never want
that thing in my house.
It's hideous looking.
Here's $50,000.
Send it home.
Next store you go to, they
have lamps that match the rug.
You look at these lamps.
They're $10,000 apiece.
You say, 20,000-- they want
$10,000 apiece for these lamps,
and they're so hideous.
I would never want
those in my house.
Here's 20,000.
Send it home.
Now, you've got
a million dollars
to spend as currency
on what you do want,
but every time you
come into a store that
sells what you don't
want, you spend the money
that you have for what you do
want on what you don't want.
Then you get home
and you say, why
is my house filled with all of
this stuff that I don't want?
And the answer-- you're crazy.
[LAUGHTER]
You are insane.
You've got currency to
buy what you do want.
And any time you see
what you don't want,
you spend it on
what you don't want.
Of course what you don't want is
going to show up in your life.
That's exactly what
happens, only the thoughts
that you have are the
currency for manifesting
what you want into your life.
If they're on what
you don't want,
you will you surely create it.
And you're all in
relationships with people
who are just like that.
And they're in
relationships with someone
that's like that as well.
And all you have to remind them
is, they're right about that.
And get your thoughts and your
attention on what you want.
Do Japa, and ask for
whatever you want.
That's the essence of living at
higher levels of consciousness.
I want to close with
something that's
going to ring in your ears.
It's written by a woman
named Oriah Mountain Dreamer.
She went to a party.
And they had a
lot of small talk.
And there was a lot of
people who were talking
about superficial things.
And everybody was
focusing on what they had
and how much they had.
And she just couldn't
take it anymore.
She's a single mom, two
children, Native American,
lives up in Toronto.
She went home and she took
out a pen and a pad of paper.
And she wrote out something
called The Invitation.
It's an invitation that
I'm going to give to you.
And it's a book of hers that
will be out very soon called
The Invitation.
In fact, I believe it
will be out this month.
It's written by Oriah
Mountain Dreamer.
It doesn't interest me
what you do for a living.
I want to know what
you ache for and if you
dare to dream of meeting
your heart's longing.
It doesn't interest
me how old you are.
I want to know if you will risk
looking like a fool for love,
for your dream, for the
adventure of being alive.
It doesn't interest me what
planets are squaring your moon.
I want to know if
you have touched
the center of your own sorrow,
if you have been opened
by life's betrayals, or have
become shriveled and closed
from fear of further pain.
I want to know if you can sit
with pain, mine or your own,
without moving to hide
it, or fade it, or fix it.
I want to know if you can be
with joy, mine or your own,
if you can dance with wildness
and let the ecstasy fill you
to the tips of your
fingers and toes
without cautioning us to be
careful, to be realistic,
and to remember the
limitations of being human.
It doesn't interest me if
the story you are telling me
is true.
I want to know if you
can disappoint another
to be true to
yourself, if you can
bear the accusation of betrayal
and not betray your own soul.
I want to know if you
can see beauty even
when it's not pretty
every day and if you
can source your own
life from its presence.
I want to know if you can live
with failure, yours and mine,
and still stand on
the edge of the lake
and shout to the
silver of the moon--
yes.
It doesn't interest me
to know where you live
or how much money you have.
I want to know if you can
get up after a night of grief
and despair, weary and
bruised to the bone,
and do what needs to be
done to feed the children.
It doesn't interest
me who you know
or how you came to be here.
I want to know if you can
stand in the center of the fire
with me and not shrink back.
It doesn't interest me
where or what or with whom
you have studied.
I want to know what sustains you
from the inside when all else
falls away.
I want to know if you can
be alone with yourself
and if you truly
like the company you
keep in those empty moments.
I want to know if you
can source your life
from your knowing inside, from
the heroic mission that you
were placed on this Earth for.
And if your attention is on "I
can't do what I love and love
what I do because" then
that's exactly what
you will continue to manifest
and attract into your life.
Shift it.
Shift to higher level
of consciousness.
That's Oriah's invitation.
Because in every moment of your
life, you have this choice.
You can either be a host to
God or a hostage to your ego.
God bless you all, and
thank you for coming today.
[APPLAUSE]
[MUSIC PLAYING]